---
layout: post
title:  "But I don’t know what that means."
author: "Akhil Mohan"
tags: Stories
---
This year I had a wonderful time teaching a group of four boys in the Sunday school. They were aged 10-11years. In one of our lessons, there was a question: “Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and saviour?” Couple of the boys said, “yes I have!” Another one said, “But I don’t know what that means”. That was a very thought-provoking statement! Well, what does it mean to accept Jesus Christ as our Lord and saviour? I first thanked him for raising that concern rather than going with the crowd. I understood that the boys knew Jesus’ sacrifice and the price He paid for us. But what does it mean for us to live practically in light of it? I tried to explain in simple terms as best as I could, and it wasn’t easy! I told them, before choosing to do something, do you ask your parents for their opinion? If yes, why so? Part of the reason could be because you trust them, and you believe they mean well for you. Part of it could be because they may have gone through the exact scenario in their lives. Accepting Jesus Christ as our Lord and saviour primarily meant seeking His will above ours in every circumstance of our life. And to know Jesus’ will, we ought to be in a living relationship with Him in the same way we communicate with our parents and siblings. But can we hear Jesus’ response actively? Sometimes yes! But don’t complaint even if you don’t. Diving deep into the Bible makes us able to know the character of Jesus and what His response was in different circumstances that people faced in their times. 

I hope they keep asking questions so that their faith maybe an active one. And sometimes as teachers, we may not have all the answers, but we definitely can share our thoughts (as I tried) and guide them in their faith journey. 
