---
layout: post
title:  "An Act of Intended Goodness"
author: "Akhil Mohan"
tags: Stories
---
Another Onam had come. Usually, I get to dress up in our traditional Malayalee attire (kurta and mundu) and go to church where we end up having Onasadhya after service. And payasam is one of the highlights of Sadhya. But this Onam, here I was, chilling at home in another lockdown.

A conversation I had that morning with one of my buddies:
Buddy: “Onam ashamsagal bro.” 
Myself: “Haha what onam this year..no sadhya nothing. Lol but gotta keep it goin, happy onam to u too!!”
Buddy: “Don’t worry bro. I will make Sadhya for you once all done.”

In the movie, Evan Almighty, Morgan Freeman (portraying God) says to Steve Carell (playing Evan Baxter), “How do we change the world? One act of random kindness at a time”. But what I am about to share is an act of intended goodness. This buddy of mine gives me a call a few hours later and asks me to come down. I asked wait what you mean. She had actually made me some payasam and brought it to my place simply because I was whining in the morning. I was touched by this act. And also, the payasam was D-E-L-I-cious. She lived within my lockdown radius and walked over to bring me the dish. Honestly, it made my day brighter than what it would have been.

This got me thinking, are we willing to make a conscious effort to make someone else’s day better? It is good to think about ourselves and preach self-care to some extent. But I think it is divine to be selfless and be of service to one of our fellow homo sapiens. You should try it. (Akhil, why you preaching mate, first go try it yourself!) Yes, I will..i..will.
